bpo-41911: Update docs for various expressions (#27470)
python/cpython: Doc/reference/expressions.rst

   single: operator; - (minus)
   single: - (minus); unary operator

The unary ``-`` (minus) operator yields the negation of its numeric argument; the
operation can be overridden with the :meth:`__neg__` special method.

.. index::
   single: plus
   single: operator; + (plus)
   single: + (plus); unary operator

The unary ``+`` (plus) operator yields its numeric argument unchanged; the
operation can be overridden with the :meth:`__neg__` special method.

.. index::
   single: inversion
   operator: ~ (tilde)

The unary ``~`` (invert) operator yields the bitwise inversion of its integer
argument.  The bitwise inversion of ``x`` is defined as ``-(x+1)``.  It only
applies to integral numbers or to custom objects that override the

> :meth:`__negate__` special method.

Reviewer: What is `__negate__`? You mean `__invert__`.

Author: You are right, I have no idea what I was thinking :)

The ``*`` (multiplication) operator yields the product of its arguments.  The
arguments must either both be numbers, or one argument must be an integer and
the other must be a sequence, or at least one of them must be a custom object
implementing the respective :meth:`__mul__` or :meth:`__rmul__` method. In the
first case, the numbers are converted to a common type and then multiplied
together.  In the second case, sequence repetition is performed; a negative

> repetition factor yields an empty sequence.

Reviewer: I see what you're trying to say here but this became less readable now. Former/latter is preferred over first/second. More importantly, when you now mention custom objects with `__mul__` or `__rmul__`, the sentence after seems like it's talking about *those methods* and not the either-or.

Instead of this, I would do what you do in other places: add a single-sentence paragraph saying that the operation can be customized.

   operator: * (asterisk)

The ``*`` (multiplication) operator yields the product of its arguments.  The
arguments must either both be numbers, or one argument must be an integer and the
other must be a sequence.  In the former case, the numbers are converted to a
common type and then multiplied together.  In the latter case, sequence repetition

> is performed; a negative repetition factor yields an empty sequence.

Reviewer: Ideally there would be no diff for places in text you didn't end up changing.

argument by the second.  The numeric arguments are first converted to a common
type.  A zero right argument raises the :exc:`ZeroDivisionError` exception.  The
arguments may be floating point numbers, e.g., ``3.14%0.7`` equals ``0.34``
(since ``3.14`` equals ``4*0.7 + 0.34``.)  The modulo operator, unless overridden
with the special :meth:`__mod__` method, always yields a result with the same sign
as its second operand (or zero); the absolute value of the result is strictly

> smaller than the absolute value of the second operand [#]_.

Reviewer: Again, I feel like mixing basic information with the ability to override with a special method, makes the entire thing less readable.

   single: operator; + (plus)
   single: + (plus); binary operator

The ``+`` (addition) operator yields the sum of its arguments.  The arguments must
either both be numbers or both be sequences of the same type, or either of them
must be a custom object that overrides :meth:`add` or :meth:`radd` respectively.
In the first case, the numbers are converted to a common type and then added

> together.  In the second case, the sequences are concatenated.

Reviewer: Ditto. Plus you mean dunder-add and dunder-radd.

.. productionlist:: python-grammar
   shift_expr: `a_expr` | `shift_expr` ("<<" | ">>") `a_expr`

These operators accept integers as arguments or custom objects that override
:meth:`__lshift__` and :meth:`__rshift__` special methods.  In the former case they
shift the first argument to the left or right by the number of bits given by the

> second argument.

Reviewer: Ditto, don't mix advanced information with the basic information. It gets confusing.

.. productionlist:: python-grammar
   shift_expr: `a_expr` | `shift_expr` ("<<" | ">>") `a_expr`

These operators accept integers as arguments.  In the former case they shift the
first argument to the left or right by the number of bits given by the second

> argument.

Reviewer: Leaving this diff made it easy to miss that your text still says "In the former case" here.

   pair: bitwise; and
   operator: & (ampersand)

The ``&`` operator yields the bitwise AND of its arguments, which must be integers
or one of them must be a custom object overriding :meth:`__and__` or

> :meth:`__rand__` special methods.

Reviewer: This is OK.

.. index::
   pair: bitwise; xor
   pair: exclusive; or
   operator: ^ (caret)

The ``^`` operator yields the bitwise XOR (exclusive OR) of its arguments, which
must be integers or one of them must be a custom object overriding :meth:`__xor__` or

> :meth:`__rxor__` special methods.

Reviewer: OK.

.. index::
   pair: bitwise; or
   pair: inclusive; or
   operator: | (vertical bar)

The ``|`` operator yields the bitwise (inclusive) OR of its arguments, which
must be integers or one of them must be a custom object overriding :meth:`__or__` or

> :meth:`__ror__` special methods.

Reviewer: OK.

   comp_operator: "<" | ">" | "==" | ">=" | "<=" | "!="
                : | "is" ["not"] | ["not"] "in"

> Comparisons normally yield boolean values: ``True`` or ``False``, but
> :dfn:`rich comparison methods` not in a context of :dfn:`Boolean operations` may
> yield anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comparisons yield boolean values: ``True`` or ``False``. Custom
:dfn:`rich comparison methods` may return non-boolean values. In this case
Python will call :func:`bool` on such value to convert it to boolean as needed.
```

   comp_operator: "<" | ">" | "==" | ">=" | "<=" | "!="
                : | "is" ["not"] | ["not"] "in"

Comparisons yield boolean values: ``True`` or ``False``. Custom
:dfn:`rich comparison methods` may return non-boolean values. In this case

> Python will call :func:`bool` on such value to convert it to boolean as needed.

Author: @ambv on a 2nd thought, the problem is this phrasing can be misleading:

[ins] In [7]: class A:
         ...:     def __lt__(s, o):
         ...:         return 'ay'
         ...:
         ...:

[ins] In [8]: A() < 5
Out[8]: 'ay'

Current text can be read to imply bool() would be called before this value is printed or used somewhere, it's not obvious IMO that 'as needed' refers only to `if` constructs.

Reviewer: "as needed", e.g. when a boolean context is expected. But that gets too wordy to spell out and repeats the word "boolean" like three times.

Author: What do you think about "Python will call :func:`bool` on such value in boolean contexts." ?

Reviewer: Sounds good, I like it.
